Add first TC tutorial (#454)
Datatamer/tamr-client: docs/beta/tutorial/get_version.md

# Tutorial: Get Tamr version
This tutorial will introduce basic usage of the Tamr Python client.  It will guide you through the process of configuring the connection to a Tamr instance and retrieving the version of that instance.

## Preparation
To complete this tutorial you will need access to a Tamr instance.  Specifically you should have a username and password that allow you to log in to Tamr, as well as the socket address of the instance.  The socket address is composed of
1. The protocol, such as `"https"` or `"http"`
2. The host, which may be `"localhost"` if the instance is deployed from the same machine from which your Python code will be run
3. The port at which you access the Tamr user interface, typically `9100`

When you view the Tamr user interface in a browser, the url is `<protocol>://<host>:<port>`.

## Procedure

> ### The Session Object
> The Tamr Python client uses `Session` objects primarily to persist the user's authentication details across requests made to the server where Tamr is hosted.
> 
> A `Session` object carries authentication credentials derived from a username and password, and is not explicitly tied to any single Tamr instance. For more details, see the documentation for the [Requests library](https://requests.readthedocs.io/en/master/user/advanced/#session-objects).

Reviewer: The word "object" carries no semantic meaning, so I suggest removing it:

```suggestion
### The Session
The Tamr Python client uses `Session`s primarily to persist the user's authentication details across requests made to the server where Tamr is hosted.

A `Session` carries authentication credentials derived from a username and password, and is not explicitly tied to any single Tamr instance. For more details, see the documentation for the [Requests library](https://requests.readthedocs.io/en/master/user/advanced/#session-objects).
```

This goes for other parts of the tutorial (e.g. "instance object" -> "instance").

(I know the requests library calls them "session objects", but let's not repeat that mistake 😉 )

 - Use your username and password to create an instance of `tamr_client.UsernamePasswordAuth`.
 - Use the function `tamr_client.session.from.auth` to create a `Session` object.
```python
import tamr_client as tc
import os

username = os.environ['TAMR_USERNAME']
password = os.environ['TAMR_PASSWORD']

auth = tc.UsernamePasswordAuth(username, password)
session = tc.session.from_auth(auth)
```
### The Instance Object
An `Instance` object models the installation or instance of Tamr with which a user interacts via the Python client.

- Create an `Instance` object using the `protocol`, `host`, and `port` of your Tamr instance.
```python
protocol = "http"
host = "localhost"
port = 9100

instance = tc.Instance(protocol=protocol, host=host, port=port)
```
### Getting the version of Tamr
With the `Session` and `Instance` objects defined, you can now interact with the API of the Tamr instance.  One simple example is fetching the version of the Tamr software running on the server.

- Use the function `tc.version` and print the returned value.

```python
print(tc.version(session, instance))
```
If successful, the result should be something similar to `v2020.016.0`.
 

> Congratulations! This is just the start of what can be done with the Tamr Python client.  Please see other tutorials and examples, or explore on your own.

Reviewer: nit: best practice for copy is to avoid the word "please" and instead explain what the user will gain if they do something.

```suggestion
Congratulations! This is just the start of what can be done with the Tamr Python client.

To continue learning, see other tutorials and examples.
```

# Tutorial: Get Tamr version

> This tutorial will introduce basic usage of the Tamr Python client.  It will guide you through the process of configuring the connection to a Tamr instance and retrieving the version of that instance.

Reviewer: Simplify wording:

```suggestion
This tutorial will cover basic Python client usage by guiding you through:
1.  Configuring the connection to a Tamr instance
2.  Retrieving the version of that instance
```

> ## Preparation
> To complete this tutorial you will need access to a Tamr instance.  Specifically you should have a username and password that allow you to log in to Tamr, as well as the socket address of the instance.  The socket address is composed of
> 1. The protocol, such as `"https"` or `"http"`
> 2. The host, which may be `"localhost"` if the instance is deployed from the same machine from which your Python code will be run
> 3. The port at which you access the Tamr user interface, typically `9100`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Prerequisites
To complete this tutorial you will need access to a Tamr instance.  Specifically, you must have:
- a username and password that allow you to log in to Tamr
- the socket address of the instance

The socket address is composed of
1. The protocol, such as `"https"` or `"http"`
2. The host, which may be `"localhost"` if the instance is deployed from the same machine from which your Python code will be run
3. The port at which you access the Tamr user interface, typically `9100`
```

> When you view the Tamr user interface in a browser, the url is `<protocol>://<host>:<port>`.

Reviewer 2: New GCP we create no longer shows the port address on the URL.

Reviewer: Maybe we should add a sentence like "If the port is missing, the URL is simply `<protocol>://host`"

Author: @minroh In doing things with the Tamr client on the new GCP instance you mention does the value of `port` need to be `None`, or is it still a value like `9100` and is just not shown in the url?

Reviewer 2: @skalish It is still 9100 but not shown in the URL.

Author: This is a little concerning, since I have also run into a GCP instance with the other possibility (where the url does not have the port shown and passing `port=9100` will not work but `port=None` will).  This means a user can't always tell what the `port` argument is just by knowing the url, and instead they must be familiar with the details of the deployment/network setup or figure it out through trial and error.

In this case I'm not so sure the description of the url in the tutorial is helpful.

Reviewer 2: @skalish I did not know about the GCP instances with `port=None`. I do not know what the best description would be either. Can we get rid of the url portion if it is not going to be always useful?

Reviewer: Wait, how can the port be 9100 but not shown in the URL? Is the URL being proxied to 9100? Or maybe you have some special config in your web-browser to hide ports??

AFAIK, if the port is not shown, then the port is not needed in the URL. @minroh for the case you describe, does cURL or `requests.request(...)` work when you omit the port?

Reviewer 2: @pcattori Newer instances created with tsc do not have the port on the URL any more. For example, this is a training instance I am currently using: https://10.20.1.33/#/  If I create a tamr unify client with `port=9100` I can use APIs as usual. If I specify `port=None`, I get an `SSLCertVerificationError` error.

> ## Procedure

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Steps
```

> ### The Session Object

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### The Session
```

> The Tamr Python client uses a `Session` primarily to persist the user's authentication details across requests made to the server where Tamr is hosted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Tamr Python client uses a `Session` to persist the user's authentication details across requests made to the server where Tamr is hosted.
```

A `Session` carries authentication credentials derived from a username and password, and is not explicitly tied to any single Tamr instance. For more details, see the documentation for the [Requests library](https://requests.readthedocs.io/en/master/user/advanced/#session-objects).

 - Use your username and password to create an instance of `tamr_client.UsernamePasswordAuth`.
 - Use the function `tamr_client.session.from.auth` to create a `Session`.
```python
import tamr_client as tc
import os

username = os.environ['TAMR_USERNAME']

> password = os.environ['TAMR_PASSWORD']

Reviewer: For a simpler tutorial, it might be better to do something like [getpass](https://docs.python.org/3.8/library/getpass.html) so that users don't need to understand environment variable management in Python.

Reviewer 2: I agree with @pcattori. In the past I created these environment variables before creating a virtual environment, then realized I could not access them. I see that the Toolbox uses [`yaml`](http://10.20.0.250:8000/tamr-toolbox/latest/) for loading these variables.

Author: @minroh I think the Toolbox method of using `yaml` is very nice, but maybe more than we want to include in this tutorial.

@pcattori `input` seems pretty straightforward, but I'm slightly hesitant to have the user import another module like `getpass`.  Is the idea that this portion of the code would be along the lines of the following, where the execution involves responding to command-line prompts during runtime?
```python
import getpass

username = input("Username:")
password = getpass.getpass("Password:")
```

Reviewer: `getpass` is part of the standard library as is `os`, so `getpass` is no worse than `os.environ`.

auth = tc.UsernamePasswordAuth(username, password)
session = tc.session.from_auth(auth)
```

> ### The Instance Object

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### The Instance
```

An `Instance` models the installation or instance of Tamr with which a user interacts via the Python client.

- Create an `Instance` using the `protocol`, `host`, and `port` of your Tamr instance.
```python
protocol = "http"
host = "localhost"
port = 9100

instance = tc.Instance(protocol=protocol, host=host, port=port)
```
### Getting the version of Tamr
With the `Session` and `Instance` defined, you can now interact with the API of the Tamr instance.  One simple example is fetching the version of the Tamr software running on the server.

- Use the function `tc.version` and print the returned value.

```python
print(tc.version(session, instance))
```
If successful, the result should be something similar to `v2020.016.0`.
 

> Congratulations! This is just the start of what can be done with the Tamr Python client.

Reviewer 3: Love the positivity!

# Tutorial: Get Tamr version
This tutorial will cover basic Python client usage by guiding you through:
1. Configuring the connection to a Tamr instance
2. Retrieving the version of that instance

## Prerequisites

> To complete this tutorial you will need access to a Tamr instance.  Specifically, you must have:

Reviewer: We should also include a link to the Python Client installation instructions here and say that having TC installed is a prereq.

> To complete this tutorial you will need to have `tamr-unify-client` [installed](../../user-guide/installation) and have access to a Tamr instance.  Specifically, you must have:
> - a username and password that allow you to log in to Tamr
> - the socket address of the instance

Reviewer: In the spirit of checklistifying things:

```suggestion
To complete this tutorial you will need:
- `tamr-unify-client` [installed](../../user-guide/installation)
- access to a Tamr instance, specifically:
  - a username and password that allow you to log in to Tamr
  - the socket address of the instance
```

 - Use your username and password to create an instance of `tamr_client.UsernamePasswordAuth`.
 - Use the function `tamr_client.session.from.auth` to create a `Session`.
```python
from getpass import getpass
import tamr_client as tc

username = input("Tamr Username:")
password = getpass("Tamr Password:")

auth = tc.UsernamePasswordAuth(username, password)
session = tc.session.from_auth(auth)
```
### The Instance
An `Instance` models the installation or instance of Tamr with which a user interacts via the Python client.

- Create an `Instance` using the `protocol`, `host`, and `port` of your Tamr instance.
```python
protocol = "http"
host = "localhost"
port = 9100

instance = tc.Instance(protocol=protocol, host=host, port=port)
```
### Getting the version of Tamr
With the `Session` and `Instance` defined, you can now interact with the API of the Tamr instance.  One simple example is fetching the version of the Tamr software running on the server.

- Use the function `tc.version` and print the returned value.

```python
print(tc.version(session, instance))
```

> If successful, the result should be something similar to `v2020.016.0`.

Reviewer: Before the "success" part, we should add:
1. the entire Python script as a separate code-block
2. how to run the script (including setting the beta flag)
